That first fall? I don't think any of our family
came down here to visit. Both his family and my
family had been here various times. When I came to
visit the campus in the years, in the previous
years, my mother had brought, had come down here
with me. In fact, I stayed at the MSC with my mother
for one of the dances that I came down. I did come
down for one of the, at least one of the dances,
maybe two. and his parents came down at least one
time and for a football game and for final review,
we all came down and saw the final review. Then when
did y'all go, did y'all go home for Thanksgiving?
Yes, we did. The game, and if I remember correctly
that, because I know that we came back shortly and
lived here, but I believe we won the game No, the
thing was we lost the game, but we played well and we
got the Monday off. I think that was it. We lost, but
we played well and we got the Monday off. Then you
went home for Christmas. Yes. And then came back,
studied for finals. That's right, we did. It was
the whole year was different than it is now. Was
there a kind of a
support mechanism, system? Was there anybody?
Where did you turn if you wanted to learn more about
this course or to prepare for it? Who did you go to
for advice? Actually, I think basically I relied
on my husband because he had been here for four
years before that. He had been active not only in
the Corps. He'd spent four years in the Corps even
though he didn't have a contract. The vet students
couldn't have a contract because they went to
school in the summer. And he was one of the ones that
entered vet school after two years of pre-vet. Not
all of them were able to do that. But he had also been
active on campus and served on the MSC Council. and
as a class officer. And so whenever I needed
advice, I pretty much just turned to him. And so you
said that nine hours you did well in two and not as
well in the other. What about the second semester?
The second semester, because I'd done well in
history, I went and got special permission to take
an upper division history class. the second
American history class and an upper division
world history class, early class. I think it ended
at 500, Greek or Roman here, and a math class. And
so I still took nine hours. I had decided to get a job
and I found a job When I realized how little I was
making, because I had worked the year before when I
was a senior in high school, I eventually gave up my
job because it just didn't seem like it was worth
the money that I was bringing. I think I was earning
60 cents an hour or something like that, but I had
decided that that that's really what I wanted. And
by that time, I knew that we were leaving as soon as
he graduated in August. Okay. You remained in
Hensel the whole year. Yes. Did you ever witness
any student pranks, Good Bull, any of the?
You know, I probably didn't see anything like
that. My experiences dealing with the students,
Hensel didn't have that, I mean we didn't have
that, but my experiences dealing with student
events really when I decided to run for freshman
class early in the semester, I guess in September,
Yes, September. Yeah, describe that. Okay. Well,
since my husband had been an officer and I thought,
well, A&M's opening up and having females, they
might as well have a female run for office. And I had
been active in high school and done things, and so I
decided to run for social secretary. I figured
that that would be something that a female might be
capable of doing and I filed the papers and nobody
ever said anything and my husband said, I know what
you do, how you run for office and we'll take care of
this. And generally what he, the first time we were
going to go and we were going to, I was going to talk
to some of the freshmen so he went to the dorm And he
told the, I guess, the duty officer of the day that
he had someone to speak to the freshmen for a
freshman class office. And this is, I assume, the
way it was done. And then the duty officer would get
all the freshmen in the dorm together and, of
course, he didn't tell them that it was a female
that was going to speak to them. And we went to
several different dorms and I had a, not a prepared
speech, but I introduced myself, told them where I
was from, what I'd done, and I was rather dressed
up. I remember I had on heels that night. We did this
several times, and we had a discussion about
whether he was going to tell them that it was a
female or whether he wasn't going to tell them it
was a female. In one particular dorm, He, of
course, he had said, I think it's better, we'll get
a better turnout, although they're going to make
the freshmen come anyway. But one of the times,
sometimes it was very crowded and I couldn't see
very many of the students other than the ones that
were just in the front. In one particular dorm, it
was the area was larger. And I was standing there
and I'm beginning to see the freshmen file in. and
then it was getting crowded and but I could still
see what was happening and all of a sudden I noticed
that there were two young men who had towels on and I
assumed that was all that they had on and when they
realized that there was a female standing in front
then they kind of were inching over so that they
were behind other people in the dorm. And after
that happened, I said, you tell them that this is
going to be a female because, you know, this is
embarrassing for them and for me. But nobody ever
said anything to me. Nobody said, you shouldn't be
doing this. We had our election and I was not
elected.
ended up coming in towards the end. I don't even
remember. I'd have to read the articles again. The
paper called me a Maggie. They didn't call me an
Aggie because they hadn't decided whether we
could be Aggies or not. The one thing I do remember
is that one of the other officers that was elected
that during that election was Henry Cisneros
because he was in that class. I don't believe I ever
met him, but he was. That class had a number of very
bright Hispanics because A&M had gone out to
recruit, not with a shotgun but with a rifle, that
one, that one, that one, and that one. And then as
seniors they almost took over the campus.
Hector Gutierrez was the first corps commander,
Henry I think was band commander or something like
that, over and over and over. Did you put out any
signs, campaign posters? I don't remember that we
did that. If we did it, it was low key, it was not We
might have put things on some of the bulletin
boards, but we didn't put things on the ground or in
stakes or anything like that. Did you have a
campaign slogan? No, I didn't. I just said that I
pretty much told everybody that since I was, that I
thought that a woman could handle the office of
social secretary for the class, and I just
explained some of the experience that I had
earlier. Did anybody ever ask you a ridiculous
question or an insulting question from an
audience? No, I think most of the audience were so
stunned when they saw me and I would say, I'd ask at
the end of my presentation if anybody had any
questions. I remember being asked just one or two
times different things, you know, if I'd
forgotten to where are you from or, you know,
things like that. But I think these freshmen were
just so stunned that they were coming down to
listen to a female, not in a bad sense, but just it
was a surprise. Now, were the comparatively small
number of co-eds in your classes and so forth, did
you feel lonely, lonesome? I think that I was
brought up in a way that it prevented me from having
that feeling. I could be friends with the guys and I
know there were times when we would go have coffee
together, some of the ones that were in my classes.
We'd go have coffee at the MSC occasionally and
talk. And I think that the way I was raised
contributed to that. My mother had a a BBA degree
from the University of Texas so she was probably
one of very few women in her program and because she
was in business and I had been raised to speak to
adults and I never had any problem and I always I
mean I was equal to them so I never had any problem
and I have friends I'd always had male friends
even. I mean in high school I had male friends.
Right now I'm going to ask you a dumb, stupid, naive
question. Was your Jewish background in fact a
strength to you for this? That might have been
true. I'm saying about being an individual, being
self-reliant. Right. And I will make a comment. My
husband had said one time that being an Aggie was
kind of like being Jewish because you, at that
time, we were, you know, the Aggies were
minorities. They were, when you got together,
people were always kind of, oh, an Aggie. I mean,
not that they would do that as a Jew, but you just
felt different if you were an Aggie. And so that's
possibly the way it was. The other thing was that I
think that because my mother had a college
education, which might have been because she was
Jewish, although there were plenty of Jewish
women who didn't, but a lot of them did, it made it
easy for me to be in an academic setting and that I
always felt equal to any situation. You're
here only a year at that point. I'm looking for
questions. You mentioned Henry Cisneros. Were
there any other celebrities, people who became
so, that you remember? I don't remember anybody
else. Did you meet Henry that year? It's possible
that I did. I don't remember. I think I might have
because we had some meetings of the ones that were
going to run for office. So I believe that we did
meet each other. I was looking at your questions
and I don't know whether you want me to go ahead.
Yeah, please do. You asked about the campus
hospital and that year, this goes back to whether
they expect women or not. That year there was an
outbreak and I want to say maybe hepatitis at San
Houston State or over in Huntsville, I believe.
But wherever it was and whatever the
disease, they had asked all of the students to get
vaccinated. Or actually, it might have been a
gamma-globin shot. and so they asked us to go to the
hospital and I remember the old hospital I think
I'm remembering right it had an open double doors
and there was kind of a foyer in the front and we were
out the door, down the block, there was a long line
of us. And there, I don't, I didn't remember seeing
any other females in that line. But I had gotten in
the line, I think my mom called and said, you go get
it. So I got in line with all the other guys and the
nurses were inside and they had not expected a
female. And what they were doing was they were
having the guys come through the door dropped
their pants and they were giving them a shot right
there. They weren't taking them to an examining
room. And all of a sudden they realized that
there's a female right there standing there. So
they had to quickly, you know, stop what they were
doing, escort me to a different room, and then I
went out a back door so that I didn't disrupt this
continual
setup that they had arranged so that it was It was
less time consuming. They could just, once they
got them in the doors, they could give real shots
and all. But that's another incident where they
had not, things were still not in place for females
or there were no contingencies for females. It was
like the bathroom situation and where. Oh, yeah,
where were there restroom facilities for women in
the classroom buildings then? The things that I
remember having to do was to go find the office,
wherever the office was in that building, and
specifically I remember Nagel Hall, and having to
then go to the secretaries, and generally the
female, the restrooms were locked, they weren't
marked, and you had to have a key. And so the
secretary would then walk you down the hall,
unlock the door, and show you where where the
bathrooms were. I do remember that specifically
in Nagel. I don't remember, I know that I was in, I
had a class in the academic building and in animal
industries. I don't remember looking in those
other two buildings, but generally that was what
you had to do. Now, in most of your classes, both
semesters, how many women were there in the class?
When I took the upper level history class, there
were a few other women in that class. I'm assuming
that most of the women who came here that year had
been going to Sam or someplace like that and when
A&M opened up they didn't have to travel anymore
and that these were a little bit older than I am and
because I was so young, I was only 18, there were
very few married 18-year-olds and so I didn't have
any in my classes except that. And the only bad
situation I had, had to do with that kind of
situation. And do you have any guess as to what
percentage of the undergraduate women were
married and were single?
Since I didn't meet very many of them, it's only a
guess, but I would think that the majority of these
were not the daughters of the faculty member. They
were student wives. Student wives, yes. that were
living in Hensel. And I met some wives who were
seniors at Sam and didn't want to transfer and were
still commuting. So there were more married
students, but they still continued to go to St.
Houston. I see you got some other notes there.
Well, I told you about going to the hospital. We
also, I burned my hand and I ended up having to go
over there. that was a different situation. They
took care of me and it was early in the morning. I
remember Guyon Hall and we attended plays there
that the university put on. They would have calls
for people who were interested and I was
enthralled by the building. I thought it was a
gorgeous building and it had they were kind of
faded but it was red plush seats and actually my
husband's graduation took place in Guyon Hall,
the vet school's graduation took place in Guyon
Hall. So I was, I had fond memories of Guyon Hall and
when they announced that they were tearing it down
I was saddened. One of the other things that we
participated in was when, was as a student when you
bought this packet of all the things that you were
entitled to you got the I think it was called Town
Hall Series, and we would see the presentations
that they brought and put on in the
basketball arena in G. Raleigh White. And I can't
remember what his, he's the New Orleans
trumpeter. Pete Fountain? No, it's the other,
shoot, it's not Fountain, it's the big one. But he
came and I remember, of course, it wasn't air
conditioned and we were sitting way up at the top
and the windows were open. But you could hear him
way up there. But we did, I think that the students
that wanted to had, did
take advantage of those kind of things and
traveling. Did you all go to any movies? If so,
where? I do remember going to, Not to the theater, I
mean not inside theaters here. We went to the
drive-in a couple of times. Oh. We went to, and I
also, and I also went to. The Grove? Yeah, I've been
to the Grove. We would go to the Grove and take your
mosquito repellent. But occasionally we went to
the Grove for things in the spring or something.
Did you go to the drive-in here at north side of the
campus? I think it was off of Texas Avenue, but I'm
not sure where it was. And one of the other things
that we did was, that was kind of a splurge, was
going, and we went one night when it was just
freezing cold and had problems seeing the movie,
you know, because of the, but we would put our
nickels in a jar and when we'd have enough nickels,
we would go around the corner from Hansel And I
don't remember whether it was a kettle, but there
was a little restaurant,
and we would have pie and coffee at, say, 10 or 10.30
at night, just at the end of the day, when we have
enough extra nickels. Where did you do your
grocery shopping? Piggly Wiggly, generally just
across the street, which was over there, right
close to Hensel. I would occasionally go into
Bryan, and I can't remember what
grocery store, but I watched the specials, and we
could get five cans of tuna fish for a dollar, or
three cans for a dollar. But a lot of times I just
went over to Piggly Wiggly, which I believe was
just right across Texas Avenue.
Well, I think we've covered
a lot of the things. I did say that I told you about
the football games and
one of the things, we went home to Shreveport
probably once during the fall semester and then
Thanksgiving and then a couple of times in the
spring semester. And I know that I was scared silly
when my husband decided to pick up a hitchhiker,
but he was in his Aggie uniform, so he did, you know,
we did. and that was all right. I was, when you
talked about notable personalities on campus, I
do remember Pinky Downs, but I also remember
Ranger, and... Describe each of those. Well,
Pinky Downs seemed to be everywhere. Whenever you
went to an event, he was there, and the official
greeter, I think, is what his title was, and
whatever it was, if it was a dance or any kind of
event on campus, He seemed to be there all the time.
And it was strange to me, I was going, who is this
guy, you know? I mean, I'd seen him before when I had
been here, but the other notable person that we all
knew, Ranger. And... Make believe I didn't know
who Ranger was. Ranger was President Rutter's
dog, and he was the ugliest bulldog you ever, I
think he was a bulldog, but he was the ugliest dog
you ever saw, and he had the run of the campus. I
mean, Reveille was always, kept on a leash, but
Ranger just roamed around and attended classes
with students regularly, especially since all
the classrooms were opened, or many of them were
opened because the campus wasn't
air-conditioned. And I know that when I had class
in the Animal Industries building, he would I'm
not sure exactly how he got in because there were
steps to get into that building and into that room
but he joined us in that building and I remember
more than one time that he was in the classroom and
everybody would pat him and I don't remember
feeding him or anything but he certainly didn't
look like he needed to be fed but he was a gentle
member of the student body I guess you'd say, or an
honored member. Did you go to Silver Taps? Yes, I
attended Silver Taps. I cannot remember whether
there was one specifically for anybody that we
knew, but I did attend Silver Taps. I've recently
attended another Silver Taps. I don't remember it
being quite as long, the ceremony being quite as
long. I don't remember. You mean then? It's longer
now? I think it's longer now. But I could be, it
could have been that my legs were tired this last
time. And we attended Muster, and I'd already
attended Muster before, but an entry for it. We
attended Muster, it was held that year on the front
lawn of the administration building and the
student body sat out on the lawn there. And it was
held, I believe it was still light, so I believe it
was earlier perhaps than it is now. I think that's
true. But we did have it right there, so it's not
the, and it was, It was just as important as it is
now. I think that it was a simpler service than it is
now. And it's a very profound service. What about
Bonfire? Did you go to Bonfire? I had attended at
least one other Bonfire.
I was, yes, we, I'm trying to remember the game.
This was the year after Kennedy died, so the year
before was when the bonfire didn't burn. And this
year we did have bonfire, yes, and I was there.
Because we didn't go home until later, and so I did
attend. Keep going. Well, I think that we got to,
I'm trying to see what else I can, after I've told
you about Ranger and I'm glad that Ranger has a
distinct spot on the campus because I thought he
was, and the muster. That was, I've attended a lot
of musters and that's one that stands out in my
memory. I've attended a muster in London. But that
one does stand out in,
let's see. This question, describe the student
body in general. As far as you at that point, Aggies
came from where? Were they rural or urban? I think
it was in flux actually. I believe that a lot of the,
although most of the Jewish students were urban,
of course, and there were no farm boys. The
population in general was still beginning, was
just beginning to start coming from the bigger
cities. I, and the problem with this is that, with
my answer to that question is that my mom was a Texan
and I, I also had heard stories about what she said
during the Depression about who attended A&M. But
I primarily believe that a lot of them, they were
beginning to leave, they would not be the farm
boys, but there were still a lot of small town rural
people and not the overwhelming majority of urban
people, the students that there are now, which I
know is true. You saw a Hispanic? Yes. As a matter of
fact, my husband's best friend in that school was a
Hispanic. they got to be friends because my
husband's name was Goldman and his name was Garcia
so they sat next to each other and in fact I had
stayed at their house he was married and he was an
older student who had been an undergraduate here
earlier and had gone back to vet school as a little
bit older student and so he and his wife taught
school here and so yes I did see Hispanics on the
campus And coming from the south, that was not
unusual for me, although I didn't come from Texas.
We had Hispanics in the school system, even though
it was a segregated school system. Were there any
blacks at A&M that fall? I don't believe so. I don't
remember seeing any there. Were you aware of any
Asian, either Asian American or Asian nationals?
It seems to me that there might have been some Asian
graduate students here already by then, and that
we saw a few Asians here. And whether or not they
were Asian Americans or whether they were
non-natives, I don't really know, but I do
remember seeing some, you know, around the campus
in the library and things. And I'm assuming very
few international students. Yeah, yeah. So
that's why I wouldn't, I would guess that these
were Asian Americans, but I don't know for sure. It
could have been a few from. Let's see.
Now, College View, those were the old World War II
barrack-like. Right. And do you have any idea how
extensive, how big, how many people were in
College View, you reckon? I don't know because
College View, since that was the, those were the
ones that,
that I said I wouldn't live in because they had
fires in those since I was, Hensel was made out of
cinder blocks and I figured it wasn't going to
burn, so. Oh, I see. Hensel was over on? Hensel was
north of the school and, East of the, of college.
East of college, yeah. And College View was also,
there were those, they were wooden barracks like.
Now there were some other wooden housing for
married graduate students that were over where
the police station used to be and on the south side
of the campus. But the vet students weren't
considered graduate students. And we didn't
qualify for that housing. And I don't know whether
those were bigger or not. But I have an idea they
might have been two bedrooms. But actually, the
College View, the wooden barracks, I